# Internship-ARAMIS

As part of my 2nd-year of Bachelor, I conducted my internship within the ARAMIS team (https://www.aramislab.fr) at the Brain Institute of Paris. The interdisciplinary ARAMIS team builds numerical models of brain diseases from multimodal patient data: medical imaging, clinical data and genomic data.

Part of the research team's work focuses on Brain Computer Interface (BCI) ineficiency. Successful BCI operation depends on the fruitful interaction between the user, who produces the brain signals reflecting a specific intent, and the computer, translating these signals into outputs. However, BCIs therefore perform inconsistently across individuals. Indeed, the user may not be able to carry the task needed to generate wanted brain signals or the computer may be inefficient in comprehensively characterizing brain functioning and correctly identifying the user's mental state. 

Through the search for neurophysiological markers of BCI training and the integration of multimodal data to enrich the information provided to the algorithm, part of the ARAMIS team at the Brain Institute of Paris is currently addressing the issue. Indeed, until today, much of the efforts in BCI research and development have focused on improving the classification algorithms taking into account localized brain activities as input features. But the latters are simplistic descriptors of brain functioning, which was recently found to work as a networked system made of interconnected and communicating distributed areas. In that context, functional interactions between brain regions represents an interesting feature to be used in BCI. 

Considering the various computations which can be conducted on EEG data, tools are therefore needed for data processing and analysis. Two are currently mainly used in the scientific community : Brainstorm, a collaborative, open-source application dedicated to the analysis of brain recordings working under MatLab, a multi-paradigm programming language and numeric computing environment developed by MathWorks. Then, MNE, an open-source package for exploring, visualizing, and analyzing human neurophysiological data, working with the programming language Python. As part of their research, the ARAMIS team is currently in the process of migrating part of their processing chains from Matlab to Python. In that context, the objective of this internship was to conduct a comparative study aimed at determining the quantitative extent to which the estimators of brain connectivity from the two toolboxes give comparable results. This step is important in order to validate their new processing chain based on MNE-Python. 

To conduct the comparison between the results provided by the two toolboxes, an open-access dataset ( http://moabb.neurotechx.com/docs/generated/moabb.datasets.BNCI2014001.html#id1 ) from the fourth BCI competition (https://www.frontiersin.org/articles/10.3389/fnins.2012.00055/full ) and available on MOABB was used. The latter was previously analyzed using both Brainstorm and MNE by the ARAMIS team in the context of their participation in the competition. The dataset was provided by Clemens Brunner, Robert Leeb, Gernot Müller-Putz, Alois Schlögl and Gert Pfurtscheller from the Institute for Knowledge Discovery (Laboratory of Brain-Computer Interfaces) of the Graz University of Technology. 

In that context, this repository contains : 
1. The file comprising the pipeline downloading generated results from .npy and .mat files and importing functions contained in (2) ;
2. The file containing the functions that allows to plot the p-values of the statistical tests conducted between the results provided by the two toolboxes ; 
3. The file containing the function allowing to correct the p-values obtained, using fdr and bonferroni correction implemented under MNE (https://mne.tools/stable/generated/mne.stats.fdr_correction.html#mne.stats.fdr_correction  and https://mne.tools/stable/generated/mne.stats.fdr_correction.html#mne.stats.bonferroni_correction )
4. The modified spectral.py file from the MNE package, which contains the implementation of a new class allowing to choose, in the spectral_connectivity() function of MNE, the Magnitude-Squared Coherence as a functional connectivity metric. 

